# Agenda

* Status updates

## Status Updates

* [@josephsavona](https://github.com/josephsavona)
  * Ever-growing stack of diffs for connections
    * Continuing on it this week
    * Working on store modifications
  * Chatted with Jan about interop
  * Chatted with Yuzhi about how we ship interop and Relay2
  * Getting ready for React Rally
* [@kassens](https://github.com/kassens)
  * Pretty spread out. Issues with persisted queries because of dynamic code
  * Working more on interop
  * Working on figuring out how we tie fragments and JS modules together
  * Gating for Pokes Dashboard
* [@wincent](https://github.com/wincent)
  * Talks!
    * Getting good engagement on them
  * Figuring out what to hack on next
* [@JenniferWang](https://github.com/JenniferWang)
  * Got the first of several diffs in for native disk cache
  * Prototyped a printer that integrates with persisted query script
    * Files are large, working on getting them smaller
    * Talked with Matt and William about maybe generating Java classes
    * Maybe large files aren't a problem?
    * Continue on getting end-to-end right now and then revisit this problem
* [@yuzhi](https://github.com/yuzhi)
  * Looked into really weird bug with nested plural link fields with client IDs (things were getting written in the wrong order)
  * Mutations in Relay 2 for Pokes Dashboard
  * Figuring out next steps for Relay 2
