# Agenda

* Status updates

## Status Updates

* [@sampepose](sampepose)
  * Flow Hack Day
    * Lots of people came
    * Found little bugs, fixed them!
  * Have Flow types in www next week
* [@josephsavona](https://github.com/josephsavona)
  * Built a GraphQL Batch API executor
  * Trying to figure out connections and mutations
    * Working with Yuzhi and Greg
* [@kassens](https://github.com/kassens)
  * Helped with www static resource changes
    * Fixed Relay sync code to work with that
  * Talked with Joe about Relay 1/Relay 2 compatibility
    * Plan is compile Relay 2 spec to Relay 1
* [@JenniferWang](https://github.com/JenniferWang)
  * Looking into disk cache iOS perf
    * Cold start regression with new bridge
  * Helped internal app fix prefetching bug with debug feed being empty
  * Created a playground app for the native disk cache
  * Worked with Yuzhi and Jan to get plan for Java disk cache reader
* [@wincent](https://github.com/wincent)
  * Landed mutation API
    * Hardened it fixing edge cases and adding test cases
    * Doesn't seem final but let's run with it for now
  * Started working on integration between mutations and containers
  * Some presentations coming up - UIE Summit and Silicon Valley React thing
* [@yuzhi](https://github.com/yuzhi)
  * Fixed query printing to use correct route name
  * Added `onNext` to tide over internal app with `RelayConnection` in Relay 1 until we have Relay 2
  * Helped with Flow Hack Day
  * Looking into perf numbers for `RelayConnection` with Groups
