# Agenda

* Status updates

## Status Updates

* [@sampepose](sampepose)
  * Finished killing legacy static resources system
  * Landed normalized Flow types
  * Fixed some bugs with Flow type generation
* [@kassens](https://github.com/kassens)
  * Relay2 containers
  * Working on compatibility container
* [@JenniferWang](https://github.com/JenniferWang)
  * Writing native Relay cache
    * Diff out for simpler parser
    * Writing a test
* [@yuzhi](https://github.com/yuzhi)
  * Working on validating Relay 2 queries
  * Update from Groups:
    * `RelayConnection` shipping to everyone now
    * Testing on iOS because more users there
      * Metrics up
* [@josephsavona](https://github.com/josephsavona)
  * Oncall
    * Lots of support stuff
    * Office hours - no one came!
    * Worked through a thing with internal team
      * Probably a good use case for `RelayConnection`
      * They really need new mutations API, thinking about back-porting it to Relay
    * Helped another team with a diffing issue
      * Work-around until Relay 2
  * GC + connections + mutations + rollback
