---
id: refetching-fragments
title: Refetching Fragments
slug: /guided-tour/refetching/refetching-fragments/
---

import DocsRating from '../../../src/core/DocsRating';
import {OssOnly, FbInternalOnly} from 'internaldocs-fb-helpers';

In order to refresh the data for a fragment, we need a query to refetch the fragment under; remember, *fragments can't be fetched by themselves: they need to be part of a query,* so we can't just "fetch" the fragment again by itself.

To do so, we can also use the `useRefetchableFragment` Hook in combination with the `@refetchable` directive, which will automatically generate a query to refetch the fragment under, and which we can fetch using the `refetch` function:

```js
import type {UserComponent_user$key} from 'UserComponent_user.graphql';
// This type is autogenerated by Relay given @refetchable used below
import type {UserComponentRefreshQuery} from 'UserComponentRefreshQuery.graphql';

const React = require('React');
const {useTransition} = require('React');
const {graphql, useRefetchableFragment} = require('react-relay');

type Props = {
  user: UserComponent_user$key,
};


function UserComponent(props: Props) {
  const [data, refetch] = useRefetchableFragment<UserComponentRefreshQuery, _>(
     graphql`
      fragment UserComponent_user on User
        # @refetchable makes it so Relay autogenerates a query for
        # fetching this fragment
        @refetchable(queryName: "UserComponentRefreshQuery") {
        id
        name
        friends {
          count
        }
      }
    `,
    props.user,
  );
  const [startTransition, isRefreshing] = useTransition();
  const refresh = () => {
    startTransition(() => {
      refetch({}, {fetchPolicy: 'network-only'})
    });
  };

  return (
    <>
      <h1>{data.name}</h1>
      <div>Friends count: {data.friends?.count}</div>
      <Button
        disabled={isRefreshing}
        onClick={() => refresh()}>
        Fetch latest count {isRefreshing ? <LoadingSpinner /> : null}
      </Button>
    </>
  );
}

module.exports = UserComponent;
```

Let's distill what's happening in this example:

* `useRefetchableFragment` behaves the same way as a `useFragment` (see the [Fragments](../../rendering/fragments/) section), but with a few additions:
    * It expects a fragment that is annotated with the `@refetchable` directive. Note that  `@refetchable` directive can only be added to fragments that are "refetchable", that is, on fragments that are on `Viewer`, on `Query`, on any type that implements `Node` (i.e. a type that has an `id` field), or on a `@fetchable` type.

<FbInternalOnly>

> See: [this link](https://fb.workplace.com/groups/graphql.fyi/permalink/1539541276187011/) for more about the `@fetchable` type.

</FbInternalOnly>

* It returns a `refetch` function, which is already  Flow typed to expect the query variables that the generated query expects
* It takes to Flow type parameters: the type of the generated query (in our case  `UserComponentRefreshQuery`), and a second type which can always be inferred, so you only need to pass underscore (`_`).
* We're calling the `refetch` function with 2 main inputs:
    * The first argument is the set of variables to fetch the fragment with. In this case, calling `refetch` and passing an empty set of variables will fetch the fragment again *with the exact same variables the fragment was originally fetched with,* which is what we want for a refresh.
    * In the second argument we are passing a `fetchPolicy` of `‘network-only'` to ensure that we always fetch from the network and skip the local data cache.
* Calling `refetch` will re-render the component and cause `useRefetchableFragment` to suspend (as explained in [Transitions and Updates that Suspend](../../rendering/loading-states/)), since a network request will be required due to the `fetchPolicy` we are using. This means that you'll need to make sure that there's a `Suspense` boundary wrapping this component from above, to show a fallback loading state, and/or that you are using [`useTransition`](https://reactjs.org/docs/concurrent-mode-patterns.html#transitions) in order to show the appropriate pending or loading state.
    * In this case, we are using the pending flag provided by `useTransition`, `isRefreshing`, in order render a pending state while the request is active, i.e. to render the busy spinner and to disable our UI control.
    * Using this pending state is optional, however, note that since `refetch` will cause the component to suspend, regardless of whether we're rendering a pending state, we should *always* use `startTransition` to schedule that update; any update that may cause a component to suspend should be scheduled using this pattern.



<DocsRating />
