website/docs/api-reference/relay-runtime/field-logger.md, before:

---
id: field-logger
title: relayFieldLogger
slug: /api-reference/field-logger/
description: API reference for the `relayFieldLogger` Environment config option
keywords:
  - environment
  - logging
  - error
---

Relay includes a number of features that allow for granular handling of field errors:

- [`@required`](../../guides/required-directive.md) provides declarative handling of field nullability
- [`@catch`](../../guides/catch-directive.md) allows you to explicitly handle field errors
- [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive.md) lets you treat field errors as exceptions
- [Relay Resolvers](../../guides/relay-resolvers/introduction.md) coerce thrown exceptions to null, matching the GraphQL spec

In each of these cases, field errors are handled by Relay. However, it can still be important to track that these errors are occurring in your app, and monitor or resolve them. To enable this, the Relay Environment can be configured with a `relayFieldLogger`. This logger is a function which is called with events each time Relay handles a field-level error.

Providing a field logger looks something like this:
```ts
import {Environment} from "relay-runtime";

const environment = new Environment({
    relayFieldLogger: (event) => {
        switch(event.kind) {
            case "missing_expected_data.log":
                // ...
                break;
            // ... handle other events
        }
    },
    network: // ...
    store: // ...
});
```

## Event Types

The Field Logger currently can receive the following events:

## Missing Expected Data Log

Data which Relay expected to be in the store (because it was requested by the parent query/mutation/subscription) was missing. This can happen due to graph relationship changes observed by other queries/mutations, or imperative updates that don't provide all needed data.

See [Graph Relationship Changes](../../debugging/why-null/#graph-relationship-change).

In this case Relay will render with the referenced field as `undefined`.

:::note
This may break with the type contract of Relay's generated types.
:::

To turn this into a hard error for a given fragment/query, you can use [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive/)

```ts
export type MissingExpectedDataLogEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_expected_data.log',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
};
```

## Missing Expected Data Throw

Data which Relay expected to be in the store (because it was requested by the parent query/mutation/subscription) was missing. This can happen due to graph relationship changes observed by other queries/mutations, or imperative updates that don't provide all needed data.

See [Graph Relationship Changes](../../debugging/why-null/#graph-relationship-change).


This event is called `.throw` because the missing data was encountered in a
 query/fragment/mutation with [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive/)

Relay will throw immediately after logging this event. If you wish to
customize the error being thrown, you may throw your own error.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have `handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.
:::

```ts
export type MissingExpectedDataThrowEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_expected_data.throw',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```

## Missing Required Field Log

A field was marked as [@required(action: LOG)](../../guides/required-directive.md#action) but was null or missing in the store.

```ts
export type MissingRequiredFieldLogEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_required_field.log',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
};
```

## Missing Required Field Throw

A field was marked as [@required(action: THROW)](../../guides/required-directive.md#action) but was null or missing in the* store.

Relay will throw immediately after logging this event. If you wish to customize the error being thrown, you may throw your own error.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been
handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have
`handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.
:::

```ts
export type MissingRequiredFieldThrowEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_required_field.throw',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```

## Relay Resolver Error


A [Relay Resolver](../../guides/relay-resolvers/introduction.md) that is currently being read threw a JavaScript error when it was last evaluated. By default, the value has been coerced to null and passed to the product code.

If [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive.md) was used on the parent query/fragment/mutation, you will also receive a runtime exception when the field is read.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have `handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.

```ts
export type RelayResolverErrorEvent = {
  +kind: 'relay_resolver.error',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +error: Error,
  +shouldThrow: boolean,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```

## GraphQL Payload Field Error


A field being read by Relay was marked as being in an error state by the [GraphQL response](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Errors.Field-errors)

If the field's parent query/fragment/mutation was annotated with [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive.md) and no [`@catch`](../../guides/catch-directive.md) directive was used to catch the error, Relay will throw an error immediately after logging this event.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have `handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.
:::

```ts
export type RelayFieldPayloadErrorEvent = {
  +kind: 'relay_field_payload.error',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +error: TRelayFieldError,
  +shouldThrow: boolean,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```

Commit message:

Add fieldPath to missing data field error logs (#4835)
Summary:
For `required` fields and Relay Resolvers which might error, we include the field's path (relative to its parent fragment/query) in the generated artifact.

This allows us to avoid maintaining a field path during read traversal, which would require a large number of push/pops of an array as we traverse through the reader AST.

However, with the addition of `throwFieldOnError` we also report _missing data_ as field errors, but these errors can occur for any field, and including every field's path in the generated artifact is likely too heavy.

This PR attempt to use an efficient approach where we build up the path on the trailing edge of the reader recursion, which allows us to avoid pushing/popping in the common case where there are no errors. The cost in the happy path is just an additional method call and a few null checks as we exit each level of recursion that impacts the path.

If this approach proves effective, we should be able to adopt the same approach for `requried` and resolver errors, simplifying the compiler and making our generated artifacts a bit lighter.

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/facebook/relay/pull/4835

Reviewed By: tyao1

Differential Revision: D65278745

Pulled By: captbaritone

fbshipit-source-id: 21de9641c7f629353249d6126326fa23f1c83f36

website/docs/api-reference/relay-runtime/field-logger.md, after:

---
id: field-logger
title: relayFieldLogger
slug: /api-reference/field-logger/
description: API reference for the `relayFieldLogger` Environment config option
keywords:
  - environment
  - logging
  - error
---

Relay includes a number of features that allow for granular handling of field errors:

- [`@required`](../../guides/required-directive.md) provides declarative handling of field nullability
- [`@catch`](../../guides/catch-directive.md) allows you to explicitly handle field errors
- [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive.md) lets you treat field errors as exceptions
- [Relay Resolvers](../../guides/relay-resolvers/introduction.md) coerce thrown exceptions to null, matching the GraphQL spec

In each of these cases, field errors are handled by Relay. However, it can still be important to track that these errors are occurring in your app, and monitor or resolve them. To enable this, the Relay Environment can be configured with a `relayFieldLogger`. This logger is a function which is called with events each time Relay handles a field-level error.

Providing a field logger looks something like this:
```ts
import {Environment} from "relay-runtime";

const environment = new Environment({
    relayFieldLogger: (event) => {
        switch(event.kind) {
            case "missing_expected_data.log":
                // ...
                break;
            // ... handle other events
        }
    },
    network: // ...
    store: // ...
});
```

## Event Types

The Field Logger currently can receive the following events:

## Missing Expected Data Log

Data which Relay expected to be in the store (because it was requested by the parent query/mutation/subscription) was missing. This can happen due to graph relationship changes observed by other queries/mutations, or imperative updates that don't provide all needed data.

See [Graph Relationship Changes](../../debugging/why-null/#graph-relationship-change).

In this case Relay will render with the referenced field as `undefined`.

:::note
This may break with the type contract of Relay's generated types.
:::

To turn this into a hard error for a given fragment/query, you can use [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive/)

```ts
export type MissingExpectedDataLogEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_expected_data.log',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
};
```

## Missing Expected Data Throw

Data which Relay expected to be in the store (because it was requested by the parent query/mutation/subscription) was missing. This can happen due to graph relationship changes observed by other queries/mutations, or imperative updates that don't provide all needed data.

See [Graph Relationship Changes](../../debugging/why-null/#graph-relationship-change).


This event is called `.throw` because the missing data was encountered in a
 query/fragment/mutation with [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive/)

Relay will throw immediately after logging this event. If you wish to
customize the error being thrown, you may throw your own error.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have `handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.
:::

```ts
export type MissingExpectedDataThrowEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_expected_data.throw',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```

The `fieldPath` property is a `.` separated string containing the path from the query/mutation/fragment root to the field which was missing. Note that there are some cases where we are missing data that is not strictly a field. In those cases the path will end with one of these segments:

1. `path.to.<record>` An edge points to an ID that is not present in the Relay store
2. `path.to.<abstract-type-hint>` A virtual field inserted by the Relay compiler to detect if a type condition holds is missing from the Relay store

## Missing Required Field Log

A field was marked as [@required(action: LOG)](../../guides/required-directive.md#action) but was null or missing in the store.

```ts
export type MissingRequiredFieldLogEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_required_field.log',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
};
```

## Missing Required Field Throw

A field was marked as [@required(action: THROW)](../../guides/required-directive.md#action) but was null or missing in the* store.

Relay will throw immediately after logging this event. If you wish to customize the error being thrown, you may throw your own error.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been
handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have
`handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.
:::

```ts
export type MissingRequiredFieldThrowEvent = {
  +kind: 'missing_required_field.throw',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```

## Relay Resolver Error


A [Relay Resolver](../../guides/relay-resolvers/introduction.md) that is currently being read threw a JavaScript error when it was last evaluated. By default, the value has been coerced to null and passed to the product code.

If [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive.md) was used on the parent query/fragment/mutation, you will also receive a runtime exception when the field is read.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have `handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.

```ts
export type RelayResolverErrorEvent = {
  +kind: 'relay_resolver.error',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +error: Error,
  +shouldThrow: boolean,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```

## GraphQL Payload Field Error


A field being read by Relay was marked as being in an error state by the [GraphQL response](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Errors.Field-errors)

If the field's parent query/fragment/mutation was annotated with [`@throwOnFieldError`](../../guides/throw-on-field-error-directive.md) and no [`@catch`](../../guides/catch-directive.md) directive was used to catch the error, Relay will throw an error immediately after logging this event.

:::note
Only throw on this event if `handled` is false. Errors that have been handled by a `@catch` directive or by making a resolver null will have `handled: true` and should not trigger a throw.
:::

```ts
export type RelayFieldPayloadErrorEvent = {
  +kind: 'relay_field_payload.error',
  +owner: string,
  +fieldPath: string,
  +error: TRelayFieldError,
  +shouldThrow: boolean,
  +handled: boolean,
};
```
