website/docs/api-reference/relay-runtime/runtime-configuration.md, before:

---
id: runtime-config
title: Runtime Configuration
slug: /api-reference/runtime-config/
description: Configuring the Relay Runtime
keywords:
  - feature flags
  - configuration
---

## ConnectionInterface

If your server's implementation of the Connection Spec differs from the default interface you will need to configure the Relay Runtime to expect the connection type and field names used in your schema. This is done by updating the global ConnectionInterface instance exported by Relay:

:::note
You will also need to update your Relay Compiler Config with these same values.
:::

```ts title="/src/ConfigureRelay.ts"
import { ConnectionInterface } from 'relay-runtime';

// Note: This must match the values configured in the Relay compiler config.
ConnectionInterface.inject({
  END_CURSOR: 'end_cursor',
  HAS_NEXT_PAGE: 'has_next_page',
  HAS_PREV_PAGE: 'has_previous_page',
  START_CURSOR: 'start_cursor',
  PAGE_INFO: 'page_info',
  NODE: 'node',
  CURSOR: 'cursor',
  EDGES: 'edges',
  PAGE_INFO_TYPE: 'PageInfo',
});
```

## Feature Flags

:::warning
Feature Flags are used for enabling and configuring unstable Relay features, **regular use of Relay should not need to modify runtime feature flags**. They are documented here for purely informational purposes
:::

Relay has a number of runtime options called "Feature Flags". In general, these are used for enabling experimental features which are not yet stable and thus not yet enabled by default.

Feature flags in the Relay Runtime are implemented as a global mutable object. To set/configure a feature flag, import that object and mutate it. If you do this in the module scope, the updates will apply before Relay looks at them.

```ts title="/src/ConfigureRelay.ts"
import { RelayFeatureFlags } from 'relay-runtime';

RelayFeatureFlags.ENABLE_SOME_EXPERIMENT = true;
```

You can find the full list of feature flags [here](https://github.com/facebook/relay/blob/203d8b10e9144a37466b8a72edbe6add48f64e7d/packages/relay-runtime/util/RelayFeatureFlags.js#L4), but keep in mind that **feature flags may change arbitrarily between versions of Relay**.

Commit message:

Add page documenting the compiler config (#4985)
Summary:
Our compiler config is relatively huge and small details of it change frequently. Keeping it documented and up to date has proved too difficult. However, recently we started driving a JSON schema representation of it and shipping that as part of the VSCode extension to give in-editor feedback about what options exist and to catch errors.

However there still has not been an exhaustive place to see what options exist or read about them.

This PR attempts to solve that by adding a new documentation page with a hand-written React renderer that traverses the JSON schema and renders a friendly version of it that looks ~like TypeScript types, which should be familiar to our users.

Some problems to solve if we want to go this way:

- [x] How should we sync the config schema file to the website folder?
- [x] How should we automate testing that schema changes do not break this?
  - I've confirmed that Docusaurus build will fail if we throw in the React components. So, if we are okay with that being our "test" that we can correctly render our config docs, we can just ensure that our react components are defensive and throw on any unhandled cases.
- [x] Interlink (and remove duplication) with existing compiler page
- [x] See if we can fix anchor links (it scrolls such that the anchor ends up under the header)
- [x] Handle dark mode

![localhost_3000_docs_next_getting-started_compiler-config_ (1)](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fce7eb4e-bb54-4685-bc73-eb96bbd4109e)

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/facebook/relay/pull/4985

Reviewed By: evanyeung

Differential Revision: D74346512

Pulled By: captbaritone

fbshipit-source-id: e4443df73bbe01631c7c7b7ec915f81d541d0fc5

website/docs/api-reference/relay-runtime/runtime-configuration.md, after:

---
id: runtime-config
title: Runtime Configuration
slug: /api-reference/runtime-config/
description: Configuring the Relay Runtime
keywords:
  - feature flags
  - configuration
---

## ConnectionInterface

If your server's implementation of the Connection Spec differs from the default interface you will need to configure the Relay Runtime to expect the connection type and field names used in your schema. This is done by updating the global ConnectionInterface instance exported by Relay:

:::note
You will also need to update your [Relay Compiler Config](../../getting-started/compiler-config/#ConnectionInterface) with these same values at the path `schemaConfig.connectionInterface`.
:::

```ts title="/src/ConfigureRelay.ts"
import { ConnectionInterface } from 'relay-runtime';

// Note: This must match the values configured in the Relay compiler config.
ConnectionInterface.inject({
  END_CURSOR: 'end_cursor',
  HAS_NEXT_PAGE: 'has_next_page',
  HAS_PREV_PAGE: 'has_previous_page',
  START_CURSOR: 'start_cursor',
  PAGE_INFO: 'page_info',
  NODE: 'node',
  CURSOR: 'cursor',
  EDGES: 'edges',
  PAGE_INFO_TYPE: 'PageInfo',
});
```

## Feature Flags

:::warning
Feature Flags are used for enabling and configuring unstable Relay features, **regular use of Relay should not need to modify runtime feature flags**. They are documented here for purely informational purposes
:::

Relay has a number of runtime options called "Feature Flags". In general, these are used for enabling experimental features which are not yet stable and thus not yet enabled by default.

Feature flags in the Relay Runtime are implemented as a global mutable object. To set/configure a feature flag, import that object and mutate it. If you do this in the module scope, the updates will apply before Relay looks at them.

```ts title="/src/ConfigureRelay.ts"
import { RelayFeatureFlags } from 'relay-runtime';

RelayFeatureFlags.ENABLE_SOME_EXPERIMENT = true;
```

You can find the full list of feature flags [here](https://github.com/facebook/relay/blob/203d8b10e9144a37466b8a72edbe6add48f64e7d/packages/relay-runtime/util/RelayFeatureFlags.js#L4), but keep in mind that **feature flags may change arbitrarily between versions of Relay**.
