website/docs/getting-started/quick-start.md, before:

---
id: quick-start
title: Quick Start
slug: /getting-started/quick-start/
description: Get up an running with Relay
keywords:
- quick
---
This quick start guide will start with a new React app using Vite and show you how to add Relay to it.

:::tip
If you'd prefer an automated approach, [`create-relay-app`](https://github.com/tobias-tengler/create-relay-app) by Tobias Tengler will walk you through adding Relay to an existing React app via a series of prompts: `npm create @tobiastengler/relay-app`
:::

We will be building a simple app which shows Star Wars movies fetched from the [example Star Wars GraphQL API](https://graphql.org/swapi-graphql/) hosted by graphql.org.

## Scaffold a React App

We’ll start with a [Vite](https://vite.dev/) React app using TypeScript.

```bash
npm create vite -- --template react-ts
```

You’ll be prompted for a project name. Type: `relay-example`

## Install Dependencies

```bash
cd relay-example

# Note: Version 18^ of Relay is missing React 19 as a peer dependency. This will be fixed in the next release. Until then we must add `--force` to the following commands.

# Runtime dependencies
npm install relay-runtime react-relay --force
# Dev dependencies
npm install --dev vite-plugin-relay relay-compiler --force
# Types
npm install --dev @types/relay-runtime @types/react-relay --force
```

## Configure Vite to use Relay

Relay uses a [Babel plugin](./babel-plugin.md) to insert code generated by the Relay compiler into your bundle. We can enable that transform in Vite with the `vite-plugin-relay` plugin:

```tsx title="vite.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react'
// change-line
import relay from 'vite-plugin-relay';

// https://vite.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    react(),
    // change-line
    relay
  ],
})
```

See [Babel Plugin](./babel-plugin.md) for information about how to configure the Babel plugin for other build systems.

## Configure the Relay Compiler

Next we will download the schema for the Star Wars GraphQL endpoint and configure the Relay compiler to use that schema:

```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphql/swapi-graphql/refs/heads/master/schema.graphql
```

```json title="relay.config.json"
{
  "src": "./src",
  "schema": "./schema.graphql",
  "language": "typescript",
  "eagerEsModules": true
}
```

See [Relay Compiler](./compiler.md) for more information about configuring and running the Relay compiler.

## Configure your Relay Environment

To allow components within our application to fetch GraphQL we configure a Relay Environment to fetch from our test endpoint and add it to React context.

```tsx title="src/main.tsx"
import { StrictMode, Suspense } from "react";
import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";
import "./index.css";
import App from "./App.tsx";
import { RelayEnvironmentProvider } from "react-relay";
import {
  Environment,
  Store,
  RecordSource,
  Network,
  FetchFunction,
} from "relay-runtime";

const HTTP_ENDPOINT = "https://graphql.org/graphql/";

const fetchGraphQL: FetchFunction = async (request, variables) => {
  const resp = await fetch(HTTP_ENDPOINT, {
    method: "POST",
    headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
    body: JSON.stringify({ query: request.text, variables }),
  });
  if (!resp.ok) {
    throw new Error("Response failed.");
  }
  return await resp.json();
};

const environment = new Environment({
  store: new Store(new RecordSource({})),
  network: Network.create(fetchGraphQL),
});

createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
  <StrictMode>
    <RelayEnvironmentProvider environment={environment}>
      <Suspense fallback="Loading...">
        <App />
      </Suspense>
    </RelayEnvironmentProvider>
  </StrictMode>
);
```

See [Relay Environment](../api-reference/relay-runtime/relay-environment.md) for an overview of the Relay Environment and how to configure it.

## Define your first Relay component

Finally we can start defining the data we want to fetch and build our UI:

```tsx title="src/App.tsx"
import { AppQuery } from "./__generated__/AppQuery.graphql";
import { graphql, useLazyLoadQuery } from "react-relay";

export default function App() {
  const data = useLazyLoadQuery<AppQuery>(
    graphql`
      query AppQuery {
        allFilms {
          films {
            id
            title
            director
          }
        }
      }
    `,
    {}
  );

  const films = data?.allFilms?.films?.filter((film) => film != null);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Star Wars Films</h1>
      {films?.map((film) => (
        <li key={film.id}>
          <b>{film.title}</b>: directed by <i>{film.director}</i>
        </li>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Compile and run your app

All that’s left is to run the Relay compiler and start your app!

```bash
npx relay-compiler
npm run dev
```

You should now be able to open your app in a browser: [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/)

Commit message:

Quick Start: Add note about watchman
Reviewed By: jbonta

Differential Revision:
D73478859

Privacy Context Container: L1125407

fbshipit-source-id: 3d09025122b64864aedb220d2789cfb0ef862df8

website/docs/getting-started/quick-start.md, after:

---
id: quick-start
title: Quick Start
slug: /getting-started/quick-start/
description: Get up an running with Relay
keywords:
- quick
---
This quick start guide will start with a new React app using Vite and show you how to add Relay to it.

:::tip
If you'd prefer an automated approach, [`create-relay-app`](https://github.com/tobias-tengler/create-relay-app) by Tobias Tengler will walk you through adding Relay to an existing React app via a series of prompts: `npm create @tobiastengler/relay-app`
:::

We will be building a simple app which shows Star Wars movies fetched from the [example Star Wars GraphQL API](https://graphql.org/swapi-graphql/) hosted by graphql.org.

## Scaffold a React App

We’ll start with a [Vite](https://vite.dev/) React app using TypeScript.

```bash
npm create vite -- --template react-ts
```

You’ll be prompted for a project name. Type: `relay-example`

## Install Dependencies

```bash
cd relay-example

# Note: Version 18^ of Relay is missing React 19 as a peer dependency. This will be fixed in the next release. Until then we must add `--force` to the following commands.

# Runtime dependencies
npm install relay-runtime react-relay --force
# Dev dependencies
npm install --dev vite-plugin-relay relay-compiler --force
# Types
npm install --dev @types/relay-runtime @types/react-relay --force
```

## Configure Vite to use Relay

Relay uses a [Babel plugin](./babel-plugin.md) to insert code generated by the Relay compiler into your bundle. We can enable that transform in Vite with the `vite-plugin-relay` plugin:

```tsx title="vite.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import react from '@vitejs/plugin-react'
// change-line
import relay from 'vite-plugin-relay';

// https://vite.dev/config/
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [
    react(),
    // change-line
    relay
  ],
})
```

See [Babel Plugin](./babel-plugin.md) for information about how to configure the Babel plugin for other build systems.

## Configure the Relay Compiler

Next we will download the schema for the Star Wars GraphQL endpoint and configure the Relay compiler to use that schema:

```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/graphql/swapi-graphql/refs/heads/master/schema.graphql
```

```json title="relay.config.json"
{
  "src": "./src",
  "schema": "./schema.graphql",
  "language": "typescript",
  "eagerEsModules": true
}
```

See [Relay Compiler](./compiler.md) for more information about configuring and running the Relay compiler.

## Configure your Relay Environment

To allow components within our application to fetch GraphQL we configure a Relay Environment to fetch from our test endpoint and add it to React context.

```tsx title="src/main.tsx"
import { StrictMode, Suspense } from "react";
import { createRoot } from "react-dom/client";
import "./index.css";
import App from "./App.tsx";
import { RelayEnvironmentProvider } from "react-relay";
import {
  Environment,
  Store,
  RecordSource,
  Network,
  FetchFunction,
} from "relay-runtime";

const HTTP_ENDPOINT = "https://graphql.org/graphql/";

const fetchGraphQL: FetchFunction = async (request, variables) => {
  const resp = await fetch(HTTP_ENDPOINT, {
    method: "POST",
    headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
    body: JSON.stringify({ query: request.text, variables }),
  });
  if (!resp.ok) {
    throw new Error("Response failed.");
  }
  return await resp.json();
};

const environment = new Environment({
  store: new Store(new RecordSource({})),
  network: Network.create(fetchGraphQL),
});

createRoot(document.getElementById("root")!).render(
  <StrictMode>
    <RelayEnvironmentProvider environment={environment}>
      <Suspense fallback="Loading...">
        <App />
      </Suspense>
    </RelayEnvironmentProvider>
  </StrictMode>
);
```

See [Relay Environment](../api-reference/relay-runtime/relay-environment.md) for an overview of the Relay Environment and how to configure it.

## Define your first Relay component

Finally we can start defining the data we want to fetch and build our UI:

```tsx title="src/App.tsx"
import { AppQuery } from "./__generated__/AppQuery.graphql";
import { graphql, useLazyLoadQuery } from "react-relay";

export default function App() {
  const data = useLazyLoadQuery<AppQuery>(
    graphql`
      query AppQuery {
        allFilms {
          films {
            id
            title
            director
          }
        }
      }
    `,
    {}
  );

  const films = data?.allFilms?.films?.filter((film) => film != null);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Star Wars Films</h1>
      {films?.map((film) => (
        <li key={film.id}>
          <b>{film.title}</b>: directed by <i>{film.director}</i>
        </li>
      ))}
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Compile and run your app

All that’s left is to run the Relay compiler and start your app!

:::tip
If you have [Watchman](https://facebook.github.io/watchman/) installed, run `echo "{}" > .watchmanconfig` to create a Watchman root.
:::

```bash
npx relay-compiler
npm run dev
```

You should now be able to open your app in a browser: [http://localhost:5173/](http://localhost:5173/)
