compiler/crates/relay-compiler-playground/README.md, before:

# Relay Compiler Playground

Compile parts of the Rust Relay compiler to Wasm and expose them as a web-based
playground.

## Build The Wasm Module

Ensure you have wasm-pack >= 0.10.0 installed. Type `cargo install wasm-pack` if you don't.

To build the wasm module:

```bash
cd relay-compiler-playground
wasm-pack build --target web
```

I had to do `rustup component add rust-src` as well.

This will create the NPM module in `relay-compiler-playground/pkg`.

## Publishing

Bump the version in `cargo.toml`. This will be used for the generated
`package.json`.

Build (see above)

Finally, publish:

```bash
cd pkg
npm publish
```

## Testing

```bash
cd relay-compiler-playground
wasm-pack build --target nodejs # NOTE: We build for node in tests and web to publish
yarn
yarn test
```

## Manually Testing

Follow the steps above for "Build The Wasm Module".

```bash
cd relay-compiler-playground/pkg
yarn link

cd ~/fbsource/xplat/js/RKJSModules/Libraries/Relay/oss/__github__/website
yarn link relay-compiler-playground

# Launch the website in dev mode
yarn start
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:3000/compiler-explorer`

Commit message:

Improve compiler explorer (#4698)
Summary:
This diff fixes a number of things in the compiler explorer:

* Exposes a number of new feature flags
* Makes dark mode work correctly
* Splits the input editors/config into different tabs to make them easier to type into
* Git ignores some files that Docusaurus creates in dev mode
* Avoids emitting tons of debug info when building wasm module (logs were added to debug why it wasn't building a while ago, but wasn't removed after we fixed it)
* Documents some foot guns when testing the wasm module
* Fixes undo in the editor
* Shows config errors, if any, in the output

https://github.com/facebook/relay/assets/162735/51edfd31-5b5c-419b-8727-1ceba44de610

Pull Request resolved: https://github.com/facebook/relay/pull/4698

Reviewed By: tyao1

Differential Revision: D58090352

Pulled By: captbaritone

fbshipit-source-id: 1b9dc850696750d98a7a5e8d588c73f977d1342c

compiler/crates/relay-compiler-playground/README.md, after:

# Relay Compiler Playground

Compile parts of the Rust Relay compiler to Wasm and expose them as a web-based
playground.

## Build The Wasm Module

Ensure you have wasm-pack >= 0.10.0 installed. Type `cargo install wasm-pack` if you don't.

To build the wasm module:

```bash
cd relay-compiler-playground
wasm-pack build --target web
```

I had to do `rustup component add rust-src` as well.

This will create the NPM module in `relay-compiler-playground/pkg`.

## Publishing

Bump the version in `cargo.toml`. This will be used for the generated
`package.json`.

Build (see above)

Finally, publish:

```bash
cd pkg
npm publish
```

## Testing

```bash
cd relay-compiler-playground
wasm-pack build --target nodejs # NOTE: We build for node in tests and web to publish
yarn
yarn test
```

## Manually Testing

Follow the steps above for "Build The Wasm Module".

```bash
cd relay-compiler-playground/pkg
yarn link

cd ~/fbsource/xplat/js/RKJSModules/Libraries/Relay/oss/__github__/website
yarn link relay-compiler-playground

# You may need to clear Docusaurus cache
npx docusaurus clear

# Launch the website in dev mode
yarn start
```

Navigate to `http://localhost:3000/compiler-explorer`
